.\" All Rites Reversed.  This file is in the PUBLIC DOMAIN.
.\" Kallisti.
.\" ddate:00006
.TH DDATE 1 "14th Discord, YOLD 3186" "ddate" "Emperor Norton User Command"
.SH NAME
ddate \- convert Gregorian dates to Discordian dates
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ddate
.RI [ -[hv] ]
.RI [ \fB+\fPformat]
.RI [ year month day ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B ddate
prints the date in Discordian date format.
.PP
If called with no arguments,
.B ddate
will get the current system date, convert this to the Discordian
date format and print this on the standard output.
Alternatively, a Gregorian date may be specified on the command line,
in the form of numerical
year, month, and day, in that order.
.PP
The options are:
.IP -h
Print a brief help message
.IP -v
Print the version
.SH DATE FORMATTING
.LP
If a format string is specified, the Discordian date will be printed in
a format specified by the string. This mechanism works similarly to the
format string mechanism of
.B date(1),
only almost completely differently.
It also operates almost completely differently
from all other known versions of ddate.
The fields are:
.IP %d
Cardinal number of day in season (i.e., 23)
.IP %D
Cardinal number of day in year (i.e., 115)
.IP %e
Random catchphrase, slogan, or piece of doggerel
.IP %H
Name of current Holyday, if any.
.IP "%[, %]"
You are advised to enclose the Holyday name
and any special Holyday messages in %[ %]
so you won't have to see your festive greetings on more prosaic days.
.IP %n
Newline
.IP %o
Ordinal suffix of day in season (i.e., "rd" on 23 Chaos)
.IP %S
Full name of the season (i.e., Chaos)
.IP %s
Abbreviated name of the season (i.e., Chs)
.IP %t
Tab
.IP %W
Full name of the day of the week (i.e., Sweetmorn)
.IP %w
Abbreviated name of the day of the week (i.e., SM)
.IP %X
The number of years remaining until X-Day.
(You will only care about this if you are a Subgenius.)
.IP %x
The number of days remaining until the next pre-anniversary of X-Day.
For a precise X-day countdown, refer to the EXAMPLES section.
.IP %Y
The year of our Lady Discord (i.e., 3182)
.IP %%
A percent sign
.IP "%{, %}"
Used to enclose the part of the string
which is to be replaced with the words "St. Tib's Day"
if the current day is St. Tib's Day.
Since St. Tib's Day exists out of time
and accordingly has no day of the season, day of the year, day of the week, ordinal number, etc.,
you should probably always enclose those things in %{%}.
.bp
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
% ddate
.br
Today is Boomtime, the 14th day of Discord  in the YOLD 3186.
.LP
% ddate '+Today is %{%W, the %d%o of %S%}, %Y. %[%n%tCelebrate %H!%]'
.br
Today is Sweetmorn, the 42nd of Bureaucracy, 3161.
.LP
% ddate "+It's %{%W, the %d%o of %S%}, %Y. %[%n%tCelebrate %H!%]" 1995 09 26
.br
It's Prickle-Prickle, the 50th of Bureaucracy, 3161.
.br
	Celebrate Bureflux!
.PP
% ddate +"Today's %{%W, the %d%o of %S%}, %Y. %[%nCelebrate %H!%]" 1996 2 29
.br
Today's St. Tib's Day, 3162.
.LP
% ddate '+We only have %X years & %x days until our alien overlords attack!'
.br
We only have 6641 years & 99 days until our alien overlords attack!
.br
.SH BUGS
.LP
Bugs are holy expressions of Her divine confusion.
Please report them at
.UR https://github.com/escondida/ddate/issues
the bug tracker
.UE
so that all may exult in them.
.SH NOTE
.LP
After `X-Day' passed without incident, the Church of the SubGenius
declared that it had got the year upside down: X-Day is actually in 8661 AD
rather than 1998 AD.  Thus, the True X-Day is Cfn 40, 9827.
.SH AUTHOR
.IP •
Original program by
.MT mpython@gnu.ai.mit.edu
Druel the Chaotic aka Jeremy Johnson
.ME
.IP •
Major rewrite by
.MT acb@dev.null.org
Lee H:. O:. Smith, KYTP, aka Andrew Bulhak
.ME
.IP •
Gregorian B.C.E. dates fixed by
.MT ntw@dandart.co.uk
Chaplain Nyan the Wiser, aka Dan Dart
.ME
.IP •
Complete rewrite by
.MT escondida@iff.ink
Detective-Philosopher 5th Class Escondida the Not Very Well Hidden, a.k.a. Ivy Foster
.ME
.IP •
Five tons of flax.
.SH DISTRIBUTION POLICY
.LP
Public domain. All rites reversed.
.SH SEE ALSO
.IP •
Malaclypse the Younger,
.I "Principia Discordia, Or How I Found Goddess And What I Did To Her When I Found Her",
.IP •
Omar Khayyam Ravenhurst,
.I "The Honest Book of Truth"
(if you can find it),
.IP •
date(1),
.IP •
.UR http://www.subgenius.com/
The Subgenius Foundation
.UE
.IP •
Your pineal gland
.SH AVAILABILITY
The ddate command is available from
.UR https://github.com/escondida/ddate
its github page
.UE .
